Add custom package actions article (#2083)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Extending/Packages/Package-Actions/custom-package-actions.md

---

# Creating custom package actions

In addition to utilizing the [built-in package actions](index.md), you can also create your own package actions. Package actions are custom code that runs on install and uninstall of a package. You can do whatever you want in a package action - however some things are more common than others.

## Basic package action implementation

To create a custom package action you need to create a new class and implement the `IPackageAction` interface. The empty package action would then look like this:

```cs
using System.Xml.Linq;
using Umbraco.Core.PackageActions;

namespace CustomPackageAction.PackageActions
{
    public class CustomPackageAction : IPackageAction
    {
        public string Alias() => "CustomPackageAction";

        public bool Execute(string packageName, XElement xmlData)
        {
            // do things on install
            return true;
        }

        public bool Undo(string packageName, XElement xmlData)
        {
            // if you want to clean up things added in the Execute method do it here
            return true;
        }
    }
}
```

A package action consists of 3 mandatory methods:

**Alias()** 

> In this method you specify the package action alias. This is used when you select a package action in the backoffice. It can look like this:

Reviewer: "This is used when you select a package action in the backoffice."

_how about changing this to something like_

"This is used in the XML definition of the package actions that you specify when creating a package in the backoffice."

        public bool Execute(string packageName, XElement xmlData)
        {
            var rootNodeName = xmlData.AttributeValue<string>("rootNodeName");

            var siteRootNodes = Current.Services.ContentService.GetRootContent();

            foreach (var siteRootNode in siteRootNodes)
            {
                if (siteRootNode.Name.Trim() == rootNodeName.Trim() && siteRootNode.ContentType != null)
                {
                    Current.Services.ContentService.SaveAndPublishBranch(siteRootNode, true);
                    break;
                }
            }
            return true;
        
            
        }

        public bool Undo(string packageName, XElement xmlData)
        {
            // if you want to clean up things added in the Execute method do it here
            return true;
        }
    }
}
```

Here you can see we added an attribute called `rootNodeName` and then retrieved it within the `Execute()` method from the `xmlData` object. This may not be super useful if you are only creating one package, but if you want reusable package actions across packages you can add configuration like this.

## Examples of custom Package Actions

> Even though you can do whatever you want within a package action, most packages use package actions for either installing content / media or adding configuration. To help you get started here are some examples of popular packages using these package actions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even though you can do whatever you want within a package action, most packages use package actions for either installing content / media or adding configuration. To help you get started you can find some examples below, of popular packages using these package actions.
```
